Blog post for sprint 121 (#367)
openSUSE/obs-landing: _posts/development/2022-07-18-git-bridge.md

> ---

Reviewer: We should definitely point readers to the user documentation at some point in this blog post: https://openbuildservice.org/help/manuals/obs-user-guide/cha.obs.scm_bridge.html

Author: Thank you for looking into it. I've added a reference to our user documentation

Reviewer: It's good that the partial is included, but it should also be updated to refer to this new blog post.

layout: post
title: SCM Bridge
category: development
---

We're back with a new change to improve workflows between OBS and source code management systems
(SCM) like GitHub and GitLab. Setting up projects and packages on OBS and SCM at the same time sounds cumbersome. SCM Bridge allows you to set up a package or an entire project in any trusted SCM repository.

# SCM Bridge in the nutshell

> SCM Bridge allows to manage the entire package sources in an external SCM repository. Previously, it was not so easy to sync the sources in SCM providers and OBS. If you have used SCM/CI integration, you have to push your sources and workflows to OBS manually. But now you don't have to copy your sources manually on OBS. This is handled automatically with the SCM Bridge. All you have to do now is just add `scmsync` tag in the project/package meta file.

Author: It's updated :laughing:

## Setup a package using the scm bridge

> The setup is done in the package meta file by defining the SCM URL inside of the scmsync tag:

Author: I've added a reference to our user documentation

```
  <scmsync>https://gitlab.com/some/repository</scmsync>
```

> This will clone the repository including all subdirectories. This is done via OBS services for scms.

Reviewer 2: What's the significance of subdirectories here?

---
layout: post
title: SCM Bridge
category: development
---

> We're back with a new change to take SCM/CI intigeration to a next step. Setting up projects and packages on OBS and SCM at the same time sounds cumbersome. SCM Bridge allows you to set up a package or an entire project in any trusted SCM repository.

Reviewer: Taking something to a next step, I've never heard that. Do you mean _to the next level_? It would be a bit over the top, because it's not a change which is huge.

```suggestion
We're back with a new change to take SCM/CI integeration to the next level. Setting up projects and packages on OBS and SCM at the same time sounds cumbersome. SCM Bridge allows you to set up a package or an entire project in any trusted SCM repository.
```

Author: It's updated :smile:

{% include partials/_series-of-posts-about-scm-integration.md %}

# SCM Bridge in a nutshell

SCM Bridge allows to manage the entire package sources in an external SCM repository. Previously, if you have used SCM/CI integration, you have to push your sources and workflows to OBS manually. But now you don't have to copy your sources manually on OBS. This is handled automatically with the SCM Bridge. All you have to do now is just add `scmsync` tag in the project/package meta file.

## Setup a Package Using the SCM Bridge

The setup is done in the package meta file by defining the SCM URL inside of the scmsync tag:

```
  <scmsync>https://gitlab.com/some/repository</scmsync>
```
This will clone the repository including all subdirectories. Each subdirectory will be considered as a package. This is done via OBS services for scms.

## Setup an entire project using the SCM Bridge

You can also setup an entire project by defining the scmsync tag in project metadata. Every top-level subdirectory of the SCM repository is considered a package in OBS.

> ## Extensions for GIT repositories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Extensions for Git repositories
```
